Hi, I'm Rachel
Sullivan and I teach at Fundy Middle
and High School,
and I teach the grades six, seven,
eight and grade ten French immersions,
and I have been teaching at Fundy
for 26 years.
Every year the French immersion students.
So starting in grade six
up until grade 12, they have a French
immersion like a francophone project
that they would do.
And the topics are related
to the curriculum
that they would see in social studies
or even in French.
Some of the readings they would do,
but it is an opportunity
to connect with the community.
So we have members of the community
come in as judges,
so their project gets displayed,
and then they are
evaluated by judges from the francophone
judges from the community.
The presentations done in French,
they're judged in French.
And it's done in the gym.
So it's nice.
And we invite the community members
to come in,
their parents, whoever they want
to bring in to see their projects.
And when they are judged,
they also have the opportunity
to go visit the other grades.
So it's basically they're taking ownership
of the French culture
and kind of displaying that
for the community to see.
We decided to do this.
I believe we started like 15
ish 20 years ago.
And it's been a tradition
that we've kept going,
and it's basically
to provide our French immersion
students the opportunity
to speak French outside of the classroom
and to somebody other than their French
immersion teachers.
It's kind of an authentic French
immersion experience for them.
We are in a, small community.
We don't always have the occasion
to practice our French outside
of the classroom.
So this provides them with the opportunity
to speak French
outside of the classroom,
in our community, because we invite
community members to come here.
It's not like we're in Moncton,
where we can take a group of students
and go to a restaurant and say like,
okay, today we're going to practice
that ordering in French.
So for us, in order to do that,
because we're a small community
that's lives
farther away, to the bigger cities.
So this is our way of kind of
providing them
like a real life experience.
It's nice to see kids
take an interest in the French culture,
and it is a nice little project.
They can create a PowerPoint
so they can have their laptop
as their PowerPoint that just plays,
or they do a trifold board.
And really, it's super easy, ties into the
curriculum and the kids really enjoy it.
It's just a lot of fun,
and the students are so proud
to display their projects
like The eye of the sexes.
So they had no idea what to expect.
And they presented last night.
They were so nervous yesterday,
but today they were like,
oh, you're right, it's no big deal.
We had a lot of fun and it was.
They really enjoyed the fact
that they were able to speak French
to somebody else.
Like we had RCMP members
here, supply teachers
like, would come in
and speak French to them.
So it was nice for them
to make connections with other people
in the community that maybe if they see
at the grocery store,
they will continue to speak French,
which is awesome,
but it just it's it's good
that they were able
to, have a sense of relief
that it is a big project,
but it's it's also nice to show off
their work to their parents
and members of the community.